because what you're saying here is that
if
if we can prevent one mouse from dying
you would kill all of the animals in
existence yes because i'm in
i'm in favor of reducing rights
violations it's kind of like the
non-aggression principle so like um the
problem i have is that
predators are the ones violating others
rights
so
yeah like obviously i'm more in favor of
protecting the innocent versus
like like it's really strange too
because weren't you attacking my
position based on
utilitarianism now it sounds like you
have a utilitarian
physician
issue each other's heaven no that's not
utilitarian logic
that fits
no that fit no you're being more
utilitarian here i'm being more
deontological you're the one being
utilitarian
yeah you are you said you wouldn't be in
favor of killing nazis
because it would result in more harm
that's utilitarian
no it's not youtube
the nazis will kill all of these people
and if i kill all the nazis then that's
gonna um cause more harm so the
utilitarian doesn't kill the nazis um
you literally just said you wouldn't
kill the nazis so you're proving my
point you're being utilitarian
in in the chat i've just posted
something in the chat here um i actually
prepared this in advance
because i
i anticipated stuff like this right well
if that is genuinely your position it's
a bizarre position because then you're
just going to have to kill everyone and
everything right because
um
you you hurt did you not listen to my
proposition
i said in circumstances where it reduces
rights violations dude i said in
circumstances where it reduces rights
violations i'm in favor of killing
predatory species
right so you're saying that it reduces
rights violations as part of your
proposition but now when i'm asking you
about one single rise so so obviously
we've got you'd have to violate millions
of of you would have to cause millions
of rights violations to save one mouse
okay let me ask you this like were you
not in favor of
like killing nazis like would you have
been against world war ii uh like
considering the german population was
larger than the jewish population
i i think we're getting slightly
derailed
no i'm not like i i don't see what the
like dude i don't see what the issue is
here considering the german population
is bigger than the jewish population
like would you be against um
like would you be against
like killing nazis
yeah i think we should incapacitate
nazis uh uh well you can't i wouldn't
well you can't we're talking about a
situation where you can only use lethal
force
so what do you mean like like assuming
the nazi population was greater than the
jewish population
would you not be in favor of killing
nazis to save jews even though that
means you're going to end up killing
more people than the nazis otherwise
would kill
yeah we're just talking about war um i
don't this is like it it doesn't matter
if we're talking about war like it's the
same principle hey could you could you
like just answer okay dude could you
just answer the hypothetical because you
still haven't done it supposing
okay well no okay no no no you're
weaseling out of it i want an
affirmative answer if there were
i want an affirmative answer you can't
just weasel out of it and say i don't
kill people i want an affirmative answer
yes or no so if there were 10 million
nazis and 5 million jews the only way to
prevent those all of those 5 million
jews from dying is to kill the 10
million nazis would you let the 10
million nazis kill all the jews
uh yes or no
yes or no
you would let the 10 million nazis kill
the 5 million jews
oh god and i and i'm the one who's the
the crazy person here okay
because
uh predatory animals are the aggressors
here they're the one violet they're the
ones violating the rights of prey
species
i'm in favor of protecting the rights of
the prey species just like i'd be in
favor of protecting the rights of the
jews so the the delusion that these
people are indulging in
is that they can and should
uh police the wilderness
uh forcing you know these human created
values onto
uh
sharks
dolphins so on and so forth even if it
means obliterating you know the entire
food chain destroying ecology as we know
it in the name of this ideal
this ideal that seems to matter more
than the teacher itself or
or what have you now
i've been kind of hinting at this
repeatedly uh in this video
what is the point
of policing to use nacho's favorite word
what is the justification for policing i
don't i don't normally talk in terms of
justifying things i think it's very
misleading in english what we what we do
and don't mean by justify or saying
something is justified um
to give an example you know
if you have an atheist majority in a
country modern atheist democratic
majority and they are getting into
policing the morality of the muslim
minority in the country so this is
happening right now in many countries in
europe
different places around the world
happening in some parts of china um
although without the democracy
unfortunately with with only the chinese
idea of democracy okay what is the
justification anyone can argue back and
both left-wing and right-wing people
argue against this there are right-wing
libertarians and there are left-wing
bleeding hearts and so on who say well
these people have their own culture
why don't you just let it
let them do it their own way you know
they have their own marriage customs
they have their own ceremonies their own
music they have their own costume their
own style of dress why you know if they
want to cut off part of their dick in
this ceremony called circumcision why
don't you just let them do things their
way why don't you just pretend that our
laws can't and shouldn't apply to them
let them carry on you know in their own
way now
this question is normally asked
insincerely and it's normally answered
insincerely but i want to answer it
really sincerely i want to talk about
what is the point
of policing okay
the justification for sober people
policing drug addicts
is entirely based on a claim about their
human potential okay the reason why i
don't want you to become a heroin addict
is because i have a definite notion of
who it is you could be and should be
right now most of you if
today with facebook you could really
look this up
think back to the classroom full of
people you graduated high school with
right how many of them are dead today
i'm assuming i've have a middle aged
audience some of you are watching this
you're 18 you're like hey wait time i
just graduated two weeks ago
it's true i do i chose some teenage
viewers okay all right if you're over 30
years old how many of the people you
graduated from high school with are dead
today how many of them are dead due to
drug use or drug overdose and how many
of them are alive but have completely
ruined their lives with drug use they've
completely rotted their brains or
whatever they've
frittered away
fritter is not quite the right verb here
they have squandered their human
potential with drugs and alcohol okay
the justification for the reason for the
point of me policing you
whether i'm the king or the dictator or
whether we have a democracy where it's
the majority of people voting in a
referendum the fundamental reason for
policing is that you have the potential
to be something better to do something
and you are going to lose that potential
it's going to be snuffed out if i allow
you to become a heroin addict when
you're 16 years old you're never going
to get there there is a kind of
potential
that a woman has
that is snuffed out
by allowing her
to have her clitoris removed in what is
called female circumcision there is a
kind of human potential that is snuffed
out when women are deprived of the
opportunity to attend high school and
university because they're part of a
religion that wants them to just get
married
at the minute they're physically old
enough to do so and that that puts them
into a veil and gives them this
operation and
deprives them of ever having an
education or a career right and guess
what guys
none of this relies on anything as
certain as science or the laws of nature
or evolution it's all political i think
the problem with veganism precisely is
that they don't regard what is political
as political
so let's give you an example one of the
most common arguments made for veganism
is that it's natural
no it's not it's ridiculous they will
make the argument that we are evolved to
be vegan or specifically that were
evolved to be frugivores fruitarian and
then that it's a kind of crime against
nature for you to eat meat it's
completely ridiculous now i understand
why it's gratifying
no no this is an ethical decision this
is a social and political movement and
it has as much or as little
justification as any other
social or political movement now i would
say just disclose my past i like black
people and i like gay people i'm
pro-black and i'm pro-gay i have never
once made an argument like
in favor of
black rights or gay rights on the
argument that they are natural or
it's due to evolution like we're evolved
to embrace gay people and treat them
well and give them equal rights or you
know the people of different
that's ridiculous to me this is
political i mean this is real politics
let's let's face up to it you know and
around the world and throughout history
most societies have been intolerant to
most people most of the time the most
trivial of differences imaginable have
brought about unspeakable intolerance
meaning catholic versus protestant
anyone today can say what the [ __ ]
what's the difference in catholic and
brought us in are you kidding me you
know um portuguese against spanish do
you have any idea how hard the
portuguese fight against the spanish you
know in new orleans and so on you know
well the difference meant a lot to them
at the time the two most popular ways to
try to make
politics unquestionable to make
you know political authority decisions
made by political authorities
unquestionable it's either to hide
behind the mask of religion
or to hide behind the mask of science as
i write about my book
currently in the 21st century we see you
know this other very strange delusion
about the law itself that things can't
be questioned just because they're a law
or just because they're in a
constitution as if that's something
different than just a decision made by
one person at one time that was written
down on a piece of paper this strange
pattern of thought we have that things
become unquestionable when they're
called science when they're called
religion and the reason why we don't
want to
admit that it's political is that
whatever is political is questionable
any decision we make i mean we can we
can have a referendum
and people decide to make uh abortion
completely illegal and then ten years
later you have another referendum and
they decide to make one portion
completely legal from the perspective
of the people of saudi arabia we are
guilty of a great injustice by depriving
people of the freedoms
freedoms they want to have within their
own religious and cultural tradition
right and vice versa we would
perceive ourselves as being deprived of
the freedoms we would value if we had to
go and live in saudi arabia right but
the justification the point of policing
ultimately is a claim made about
potential and i will make the further
statement that potential ultimately its
significance is intellectual i'm opposed
to
marijuana
everyone in this audience right now i'm
just gonna encourage you to quit smoking
marijuana never smoke marijuana again if
you own marijuana right now in your
apartment
flush it down the toilet start living a
better life tomorrow morning as a result
kids
it's my position number one some people
are dying of cancer
some people have particular symptoms
either caused by the cancer itself or by
the therapy they're receiving such as
chemotherapy they're getting chemical
treatments and different kinds of
invasive okay that are horrendously
painful i have been told
and i am willing to believe that
marijuana
can be used to treat the physical pain
as a painkiller and has fewer negative
side effects than other painkillers for
some of these people who are dying of
cancer great
smoke marijuana every day
you're going to die two weeks from now
what is the point of me policing your
drug habit if you are gonna be dead two
weeks from now
you see you see how that changes it's
subtle but it's not [ __ ] subtle at
all it's the most obvious thing in the
world and once you've seen it you can't
unsee it the justification
for me oppressing you whether it's the
king oppressing you or the in a
democracy the majority oppressing the
minority or in a parliamentary system
an elite minority oppressing the
majority the justification ultimately
has to be based on your positive
potential or making a claim
based on your potential your
intellectual potential your human
potential okay
the shark
has absolutely
no
intellectual potential above and beyond
exercising its evolved natural faculties
to hunt and kill and mate and lay eggs
that's it
if you relieve the shark
of its duty
to hunt and kill by providing it every
day with an ingeniously devised vegan
sandwich
you go every day out in your canoe
and you feed the shark a vegan sandwich
that the most brilliant scientists have
designed to appease the hunger of the
sharks so that it no longer has to hunt
what do you think you are liberating the
shark to do
is it now going to write that novel it
was working on
you know there is no other nature there
is no other capacity right there is no
further horizon there is no intellectual
development possible for the shark it
can only be the best shark it can be it
cannot imitate a human being in virtue
okay it can't cultivate anything
intellectually and indeed i think with
most predatory species i don't know this
about sharks there are some predatory
species where if you give them food this
way if human beings relieve them they no
longer have the need to hunt because
they're being fed some of them will just
become completely inert some of them
will just become lazy they'll do nothing
but others
will hunt and kill for sport they'll
hunt and kill for fun because that's all
they know how to do that's all they
enjoy
they hunting mating they have a very
you know they have very very limited
intellectual capacity
so this is
this is obviously taking the more uh i
know the less horrifying form of
policing as our example right this is
policing through deterrence or something
right the other form of policing that's
being entertained here absurdly and is
now endorsed by vegan gains he managed
to get that vegan teacher to
congressionally go along with it but the
other foreign police needs to actually
exterminate them because they refuse to
live up to our to our human standards
our human values when we decide that we
are going to police the muslim faith and
by the way there are plenty of forms of
judaism and christianity that are just
as bad
i'm not joking in canada you can look at
the hutterites a lot of the kind of
extreme fundamentalist christian cults
frankly
let me say look
the majority has decided that we do not
like the fact that your women are being
raised without going to high school and
university and so on and i know it's
ridiculous because it's not compulsory
to go to university but we don't like
what you're doing the way you're raising
young women in this and we are actually
going to start passing laws and we're
going to break up your closed cult like
community you can imagine there are some
mormon groups that are like this too
because we really want these women to
have access to education and be a part
of society and all these in all these
different ways ultimately it's about
intellectual potential it's like look
you are depriving these women of the
life of the mind you're depriving them
of the full range of their of their
human nature their human capabilities
but that is the justification for what
is genuinely oppressive when you prevent
people from circumcising their own
children you're oppressing them you
prevent people from raising their own
sons and daughters the way they want to
with their own culture you're oppressing
them you're saying yes this oppression
is justified because we really believe
that you have other potential there's a
better life there's a more meaningful
life for you to live that you'd be
deprived of otherwise okay there is in
this way
no justification whatsoever for
civilized human beings to engage in
policing
the wilderness policing sharks policing
leopards tigers lions and the lion has
no other nature no higher intellectual
uh characteristics that it can exercise
uh develop or ever even imagine or
aspire to from my perspective that's a
wrap
it's simple
mod vegan thought that human beings
should prevent bears from raping other
bears in the forest you know so bears
generalizing hashtag not all bears but
among bears generally speaking rape is
common and cannibalism is also common uh
lions too have a great deal of
cannibalism yeah
it's a dog-eat-dog world it's a very
bear world also okay so you have an idea
of human morality and like this is
specifically human sexuality and you
want to impose it on bears you want to
police
bears you want to police
the morality of bears the diet of bears
you're going to bring them into court
for murder i mean it's for some of us
it's just so self-evidently absurd but
do you have the vocabulary to reason
that through do you have the ability to
really explain to someone where it is
they're going wrong in applying this
this constant policing you would kill
every bird on earth because they would
dare to to pull a worm from the ground
they would dare to crush up a potato bug
they would eat the insects out of the
air and off the ground you know so you
want to you want to commit genocide
against robbins we're not living up to
your standards
this is madness it's madness because you
are policing them in a way that that's
irrelevant it's it's ridiculous and and
by congress you have to talk about what
is the positive justification for
policing what is the point of policing
the point is i'm policing you because i
don't want you to become a heroin addict
i don't want you to drop out of school
and be unemployable and whatever i don't
want all these terrible things that
happen to you but i'm policing you in a
sense also i want you to be vegan i want
you to have this more uh sophisticated
morally responsible you know view of
life so it's filled with i am doing that
because of your positive potential when
you scale it up
our
positive potential all right afghanistan
could be a better country if they became
you know ninety percent atheist and
ninety percent
vegan you know these things are linked
in many ways if you could bring about
fundamental positive changes in their in
their attitudes their level of education
and their outlook on life and so on you
could you could radically you know
improve life for everyone in that
society now how are you going to do it
you know obviously we've just seen a
20-year experiment asking the question
of can you oppress the people of
afghanistan into enlightenment and the
answer is george w bush can't
i think some other president frankly
could have done it i think a lot of this
has to be blamed on the unique stupidity
of two men george w bush and barack
obama well they didn't do it they failed
left to their own devices their their
culture is going to go on they're going
to go on oppressing themselves and
oppressing one another and oppressing
women and oppressing animals it's going
on and on forever
and you know the point of policing in
this sense
you're the catcher the point is
ultimately is enlightenment is of
wanting people to live an enlightened
life and make enlightened choices and
become enlightened people become better
people that's why i'm telling you to not
smoke marijuana i want to tell you also
to not use
heroin cocaine fentanyl and innumerable
other drugs
but when we turn to
a robin
a penguin
it's meaningless there is just no sense
in which we can preach to the penguins
that they ought not to eat fish okay no
no no no the hypothetical is they can
only use lethal force you're saying it's
morally wrong for them to stop a mass
shooter
who's killing dozens of people if they
use lethal force to kill that mass
shooter or to stop the mass shooter in
my personal opinion it's morally wrong
they might do it anyway
okay dude this debate over you're a joke
to me you know what you're just you're
just
okay dude you're just [ __ ] special
you know what i am done you're just
special all right
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice